Node.js is a runtime environment that allows JavaScript to run outside the browser for building server-side applications.

Built on the V8 JavaScript engine.
Supports asynchronous, event-driven programming.
Efficient for scalable network applications.
"Hello, World!" Program in Node.js
A “Hello, World!” program is the simplest way to begin with Node.js, showing how JavaScript runs outside the browser.

Executes JavaScript in a server or command-line environment.
Does not rely on a browser console.

console.log("Hello, World!");
Working of Node.js
Node.js is a runtime environment that enables JavaScript to run outside the browser for building scalable server-side applications.

Built on the V8 JavaScript engine.
Uses asynchronous, event-driven architecture.
Suitable for scalable network applications.

Node.js is a runtime that enables JavaScript to run on the server side using an event-driven, non-blocking architecture.

Designed for building fast and scalable web applications.
Efficiently handles multiple requests using asynchronous processing.
Suitable for real-time applications like chat apps and APIs.

Need of Node.js
Node.js has become essential in modern web development because it addresses the demands of speed, scalability, and real-time interaction in today’s applications.

Handles Real-Time Applications: Modern apps like chat systems, live tracking, and streaming need instant data updates. Node.js supports real-time communication efficiently using event-driven architecture.
Single Language (JavaScript): Developers can use JavaScript for both frontend and backend, simplifying development and improving productivity.
Efficient Data Handling: Its non-blocking, asynchronous nature allows it to process multiple requests simultaneously without slowing down.
Strong Ecosystem: With tools like npm, developers get access to thousands of libraries, speeding up development.


Features
It is known for performance, scalability, and an extensive ecosystem. Below are some key features:
Executes operations asynchronously without blocking the main thread, allowing multiple requests to be handled efficiently.
Uses an event-driven architecture with an event loop to manage concurrent connections effectively.
Built on Google's V8 JavaScript engine, providing fast execution 

Use Cases
Here are some use cases of Node.js:

Real-Time Applications: Ideal for chat platforms, gaming, and collaborative tools that require instant data updates.
API Development: Efficiently handles multiple simultaneous requests, making it suitable for building RESTful APIs.
Streaming Applications (Netflix): Node.js processes large data streams without buffering, perfect for video and audio streaming.
Command-line Tools: Node.js allows building powerful CLI tools using npm libraries and cross-platform support.

Advantages of Using Node.js
High Performance: Uses a non-blocking I/O model and V8 engine for fast execution, ideal for real-time and large-scale applications.
Scalable: Event-driven architecture handles many concurrent connections efficiently.
Cross-Platform: Runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux.
Active Community: Strong community support with a large ecosystem of open-source libraries and tool.

Industry Usage of Node.js
Node.js is popular for its scalability, speed, and real-time capabilities across multiple industries:

Used by fast-growing startups for rapid development and real-time applications (e.g., Uber, Netflix, Trello).
Powers finance platforms with secure, high-performance transaction processing (e.g., PayPal, Intuit).
Handles high-traffic e-commerce websites and real-time updates (e.g., Walmart, eBay).
Supports media and entertainment platforms with smooth streaming and live interactions (e.g., Spotify, BBC).
